Mindfulness can help support you
any time
difficulty arises during your day.
like the moments when you receive
some information or feedback
that immediately propels you
to think the worst.
Or when you hear or see a comment
from someone that compels
you to want to say or do something
that you might later regret.
This particular practice is based on one
offered
by Rhonda McKee through mindful.org
Stop is a simple practice
that can help you to redirect
and get back on track
when you're experiencing
overwhelming feelings or thoughts.
The four letters in the words STOP
will help you remember how to do it.
Let's try it together now.
To begin,
The S stands simply for stop.
Literally just stop or pause.
What you're doing
whether it's typing a text or reading an email
or rushing out the door
of your meeting or class.
Give yourself a moment to come to rest.
To pause.
And to collect yourself.
The T stands for
Take a conscious breath.
Now that you've paused,
take a deeper breath or two,
allowing yourself
to feel the expansion of the belly
as you breathe deeply.
Notice the sensations of being here now
As you do so,
It might help to bring your attention
to the sensations
of your feet, meeting the floor,
feel the support of the ground
and of your own, relaxing breath
as you do so.
The O stands for Observe
what's going on inside you,
including any thoughts,
emotions,
or bodily sensations
such as tension, butterflies,
tightness in the jawline.
Now broaden your awareness
to take in the circumstances.
Notice how you can be in this situation
without being ruled by it.
For added support,
offer yourself
some kindness and compassion
as you release tension and stressful
thoughts.
Telling yourself statements
like it's okay, you will be okay
can be helpful as a first step.
Sit with this step as long as you need
and as you calm down,
try to be open to the choices
you have in front of you.
What is the best way
to move forward from here?
The final letter in
stop the P stands for proceed
when you are ready
to close these moments of practice.
You simply proceed
with taking the next step in your day
with intentionality.
Taking the next step in your day
from this place of strength,
wisdom and presence.
This stop practice will likely
come in handy
many times during your days and weeks.
It can help
whenever you're feeling distress,
and especially when you remember to pause
in the face
of some stimulating event or situation.
Creating a space
for observing and taming your feelings
and accessing the resources within you.
Stop.
Take a breath.
Observe what's going on in you.
Proceed with intention.